[Music]
so look you can relieve your lower back
pain or even prevent it all together
let's get into it warm up with a basic
knee to chest stretch it'll help relieve
the tension in your lower back
lie down on your back pull your right
knee into your chest with your hands
squeeze your abs and press your spine
into the floor
hold it like that for five seconds
release the leg back down
now lift your left leg the same way try
three reps on each leg the next exercise
is the wall set
it's a must if you spend a lot of time
at a desk or
on the couch stand one step from the
wall
now lean back until you feel your spine
flat up against it
slowly start to bend your knees remember
to press your lower back into the wall
stay like this and count to ten then
carefully and slowly
move back up do ten reps of this
exercise
move into upward facing dog if your back
hurts a lot
better skip this one but if it's just
occasional pain
this move can really strengthen up your
back muscles which is great for your
posture
lie down with your hands pressing into
the floor by your middle ribs
engage your muscles and lift your chest
next your hips
knees and legs lift off the floor and
the tops of your feet
press into it draw your shoulder blades
back
and down and look forward stay here for
about five breaths
then go back down try to do five reps
practice it with a chair first if you're
worried about injuries
put your hands on the edge of the chair
and open up your chest
just like the floor version keep those
arms straight
next up is bird dog it keeps your low
back tight when your arms and legs are
moving around
get down on all fours and squeeze those
abs
lift one leg up to hip level and extend
it out behind you
now stretch the opposite arm in front of
you
hold it for five seconds then do the
same on the other side
try for 12 reps on each side if it seems
too easy
try holding the pose for longer another
animal combo coming up
cat cow this one makes you more flexible
and helps soothe any unwanted tension in
your lower back
get back down on all fours and keep your
knees
hip width apart pull your belly button
up
into your spine and put your head down
you're doing the cat stay here for five
seconds
you'll feel a nice stretch in your lower
back
now go back to neutral lift your head
and lower your belly
keep your spine long don't slouch
congratulations you're a cow
stay there for five seconds try to do it
another 15
times inhale on cow and exhale on cat
alrighty enough of the animal world
let's get into the bridge position lie
on your back with your knees up
and your feet on the floor it's okay if
your back curves a bit
you don't have to keep it flat push your
heels into the floor
squeeze those abs and lift your hips
when your body's in a straight line hold
it for 10 seconds
try five reps on this one
now let's do some partial crunches skip
this one if your back is hurting today
otherwise get ready for a delicious
squeeze
lie on your back just like in the bridge
pose you can support the back of your
head with your fingertips
now squeeze your abs and lift your
shoulders slowly
keep your feet and low back on the mat
go up
pause then go down can you do 10 reps
i know you can alright you need a little
break after that last one
get a towel or a blanket and roll it up
for some belly flops
it's gonna feel great put the roll
horizontally in front of you
now lie down on it face down the roll
should be
under your hips you can put your head to
either side doesn't matter
just relax after a few minutes you'll
feel the tension
washing away flip onto your stomach but
keep that towel roll under your hips
it's back extension time keep your arms
down by your sides
palms facing in lift your shoulders head
and arms and hold for a few seconds then
relax back down ready for the full
experience
lift your legs along with your shoulders
head and arms
let's do some lying lateral leg lifts
that's a lot of bells
lie on your side next to a wall press
your back and legs up against it
and keep your lower leg straight try not
to lean your hips forward
squeeze your core and slowly lift your
top leg
up and down try for 10 reps then flip
over and do the other side
to cool down and make your core muscles
more stable
finish up with some lower back rotations
lie down on the floor
face up and put your arms out to the
side
bend your knees then slowly move them to
one side head
facing the other way hold for 10 seconds
and then go back to neutral
move your knees to the other side just
like before
do three reps on each side take a deep
breath
relax and smile this routine is great
for your lower back and can even prevent
injuries
by making you stronger and more flexible
if you try it and feel the pain get
worse
stop right away and see a doctor there
are also some exercises that you should
never
ever do if you have lower back pain toe
touches
stretch your ligaments and spinal discs
and stretch your lower back muscles too
much
basic sit-ups also put too much pressure
on your spinal discs
so just do the partial crunches i showed
you regular leg lifts aren't that great
either
when you lift both legs while lying on
your back you're asking a lot from your
core stick to the lateral leg lifts we
did earlier
they're hard enough your back will
really appreciate if you wear comfy
shoes without extreme heels
especially if you move around all day it
doesn't like slouching and prefers good
posture
remember to warm up before any physical
activity and don't lift objects that
look and feel
too heavy how about a wheeled suitcase
or even a briefcase
instead of a heavy backpack check if all
the surfaces you use every day are the
right height for you
you shouldn't have to slouch down to use
them if you're a surgeon or
nurse bus driver construction worker
farmer
airline crew firefighter or police
officer
janitor or have some other job that
involves
a lot of pulling lifting and twisting
stay alert
and keep active try some aerobics on the
weekend
take a yoga class or do pilates to keep
your muscles
strong and flexible
[Music]